README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Authentication and Database Setup

This project uses NextAuth.js for authentication with Google OAuth and Supabase for the database. To set up:

### Google OAuth Setup

1. Create a Google OAuth application in the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Set the authorized redirect URI to `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google`
3. Copy your Client ID and Client Secret

### Supabase Setup

1. Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)
2. After project creation, get your project URL and anon key from the API settings
3. In your Supabase project, set up the following tables:

#### YouTubers Table

```sql
create table youtubers (
  id uuid default uuid_generate_v4() primary key,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default now(),
  name text not null,
  channel_url text not null,
  image_url text,
  description text,
  vote_count integer default 0
);
```

#### Votes Table

```sql
create table votes (
  id uuid default uuid_generate_v4() primary key,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default now(),
  user_id text not null,
  youtuber_id uuid references youtubers(id) on delete cascade not null,
  unique (user_id, youtuber_id)
);
```

#### Increment Vote Count Function

```sql
create or replace function increment_vote_count(youtuber_id uuid)
returns void as $$
begin
  update youtubers
  set vote_count = vote_count + 1
  where id = youtuber_id;
end;
$$ language plpgsql;
```

4. Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```
# Authentication
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your_nextauth_secret_here # generate with `openssl rand -base64 32`

# Google OAuth
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret

# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

Enhance user management and authentication features; integrate role-based access control for admin users, update session handling to include user roles, and improve admin dashboard layout with tabs for managing YouTubers and users. Update README with user table schema and admin setup instructions.

README.md, after:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Authentication and Database Setup

This project uses NextAuth.js for authentication with Google OAuth and Supabase for the database. To set up:

### Google OAuth Setup

1. Create a Google OAuth application in the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Set the authorized redirect URI to `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google`
3. Copy your Client ID and Client Secret

### Supabase Setup

1. Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)
2. After project creation, get your project URL and anon key from the API settings
3. In your Supabase project, set up the following tables:

#### YouTubers Table

```sql
create table youtubers (
  id uuid default uuid_generate_v4() primary key,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default now(),
  name text not null,
  channel_url text not null,
  image_url text,
  description text,
  vote_count integer default 0
);
```

#### Votes Table

```sql
create table votes (
  id uuid default uuid_generate_v4() primary key,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default now(),
  user_id text not null,
  youtuber_id uuid references youtubers(id) on delete cascade not null,
  unique (user_id, youtuber_id)
);
```

#### Users Table

```sql
create table users (
  id text primary key,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default now(),
  email text not null unique,
  name text,
  image_url text,
  role text check (role in ('admin', 'user')) default 'user' not null
);
```

#### Increment Vote Count Function

```sql
create or replace function increment_vote_count(youtuber_id uuid)
returns void as $$
begin
  update youtubers
  set vote_count = vote_count + 1
  where id = youtuber_id;
end;
$$ language plpgsql;
```

#### Setting Up Admin Users

To make a user an admin:

1. The user must first sign in through Google OAuth (this creates their user record)
2. Update their role in the database:

```sql
UPDATE users SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'admin@example.com';
```

**Important:** The first admin user must be set up manually in the database after they sign in for the first time.

4. Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```
# Authentication
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your_nextauth_secret_here # generate with `openssl rand -base64 32`

# Google OAuth
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret

# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
```

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.
